project/README.rst, before:

================
NSD Term Project
================

This is the directory for the term project proposal.  To turn it in, you need
**a PR** and **an E3 entry for the PR URL**.  See
https://yyc.solvcon.net/en/latest/nsd/schedule/25au_nycu/schedule25au.html for
what should be included in the proposal and project.

The proposal accounts for 8 points out of the 40 points allocated to the term
project.  Like homework, you will need to create a PR against the ``project``
branch (not ``master``).  You need to create a sub-directory using exactly your
GitHub username as your working directory (``nsdhw_25au/project/$username/``).
The hierarchy should be like::

  - nsdhw_25au (<- repository root)
    - project
      - username (<- your working directory)
        - README.rst (<- the main proposal file)
        - ... other files for your proposal

**ATTENTION**: Your PR should include an entry in "Project List by Account
Name" in this file.

When submitting your proposal, name the PR as ``<username>-proposal**``, e.g.,
``yungyuc-proposal-submission``.  Don't forget to put the PR URL in the E3
entry too.  You can request my review in the PR.

Presentation
============

..
  The presentation schedule is set.  If you want to change the time, ask for the
  owner of the other time slot and file a PR tagging him or her and the
  instructor (@yungyuc) against the branch `master`.  Everyone involved needs to
  add a global comment to agree the exchange in the PR.  The PR subject line
  should start with ``[presentation]``.

  Each presenter has at most 15 minutes including setup.  A common arrangement is
  to present for 12 minutes and use 3 minutes for questions and discussions.

  Presenters should prepare the computer.  It is OK to share.  If presenters have
  difficulty in preparing a computer, they need to seek help and resolve the
  issue one week (168 hours) before the presentation.

Projects by Account Names
+++++++++++++++++++++++++


Follow the format to add your project:

0. `github_account_name <https://github.com/github_account_name>`__ for
   `Project subject <github_account_name/README.rst>`__:
   https://github.com/github_account_name/project_name
1. `Tsaimingchun14 <https://github.com/Tsaimingchun14>`__ for
   `hmm-train <https://github.com/Tsaimingchun14/hmm-train/blob/main/README.rst>`__:
   https://github.com/Tsaimingchun14/hmm-train
2. `Linkenreefefedas <https://github.com/Linkenreefefedas>`__ for
   `CNDA <https://github.com/Linkenreefefedas/CNDA/blob/main/README.rst>`__:
   https://github.com/Linkenreefefedas/CNDA
3. `wei0107 <https://github.com/wei0107>`__ for
   `pixfoundry <https://github.com/wei0107/PixFoundry/blob/main/README.rst>`__:
   https://github.com/wei0107/PixFoundry
4. `ryankert01 <https://github.com/ryankert01>`__ for
   `Voronoi Diagram Toolkit <ryankert01/README.rst>`__:
   https://github.com/ryankert01/voronoi-diagram-toolkit

.. note::

  Append your project after the first example entry.  Do not delete the example
  entry.

Commit message:

project proposal submit by lnfu

project/README.rst, after:

================
NSD Term Project
================

This is the directory for the term project proposal.  To turn it in, you need
**a PR** and **an E3 entry for the PR URL**.  See
https://yyc.solvcon.net/en/latest/nsd/schedule/25au_nycu/schedule25au.html for
what should be included in the proposal and project.

The proposal accounts for 8 points out of the 40 points allocated to the term
project.  Like homework, you will need to create a PR against the ``project``
branch (not ``master``).  You need to create a sub-directory using exactly your
GitHub username as your working directory (``nsdhw_25au/project/$username/``).
The hierarchy should be like::

  - nsdhw_25au (<- repository root)
    - project
      - username (<- your working directory)
        - README.rst (<- the main proposal file)
        - ... other files for your proposal

**ATTENTION**: Your PR should include an entry in "Project List by Account
Name" in this file.

When submitting your proposal, name the PR as ``<username>-proposal**``, e.g.,
``yungyuc-proposal-submission``.  Don't forget to put the PR URL in the E3
entry too.  You can request my review in the PR.

Presentation
============

..
  The presentation schedule is set.  If you want to change the time, ask for the
  owner of the other time slot and file a PR tagging him or her and the
  instructor (@yungyuc) against the branch `master`.  Everyone involved needs to
  add a global comment to agree the exchange in the PR.  The PR subject line
  should start with ``[presentation]``.

  Each presenter has at most 15 minutes including setup.  A common arrangement is
  to present for 12 minutes and use 3 minutes for questions and discussions.

  Presenters should prepare the computer.  It is OK to share.  If presenters have
  difficulty in preparing a computer, they need to seek help and resolve the
  issue one week (168 hours) before the presentation.

Projects by Account Names
+++++++++++++++++++++++++


Follow the format to add your project:

0. `github_account_name <https://github.com/github_account_name>`__ for
   `Project subject <github_account_name/README.rst>`__:
   https://github.com/github_account_name/project_name
1. `Tsaimingchun14 <https://github.com/Tsaimingchun14>`__ for
   `hmm-train <https://github.com/Tsaimingchun14/hmm-train/blob/main/README.rst>`__:
   https://github.com/Tsaimingchun14/hmm-train
2. `Linkenreefefedas <https://github.com/Linkenreefefedas>`__ for
   `CNDA <https://github.com/Linkenreefefedas/CNDA/blob/main/README.rst>`__:
   https://github.com/Linkenreefefedas/CNDA
3. `wei0107 <https://github.com/wei0107>`__ for
   `pixfoundry <https://github.com/wei0107/PixFoundry/blob/main/README.rst>`__:
   https://github.com/wei0107/PixFoundry
4. `ryankert01 <https://github.com/ryankert01>`__ for
   `Voronoi Diagram Toolkit <ryankert01/README.rst>`__:
   https://github.com/ryankert01/voronoi-diagram-toolkit
5. `lnfu <https://github.com/lnfu>`__ for
   `DEATH: Differential Expression Analysis Tool for High-throughput NGS <lnfu/README.rst>`__: https://github.com/lnfu/death

.. note::

  Append your project after the first example entry.  Do not delete the example
  entry.
